Copyright (c) 2011 The Native Client Authors. All rights reserved.
Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style license that can be
found in the LICENSE file.

Copyright (c) 1994, 1996 by Bennet Yee.

This material was developed by the author.  Permission to copy this
software, to redistribute it, and to use it for any purpose is hereby
granted, subject to the following five restrictions.

1. Any copy made of this software must include this copyright notice in
full.

2. All materials containing this software or derivatives thereof must
provide this software in source form or provide a means of obtaining
this software in source form; no fees may be charged for this software
except those for covering media costs and handling.

3. All materials developed as a consequence of the use of this software
shall duly acknowledge such use, in accordance with the usual standards
of acknowledging credit in academic research.

4. The author makes no warranty or representation that the operation
of this software will be error-free, and the author is under no
obligation to provide any services, by way of maintenance, update, or
otherwise.

5. In conjunction with products arising from the use of this material,
there shall be no use of the names of the author, of Carnegie-Mellon
University or University of California, nor of any adaptation thereof
in any advertising, promotional, or sales literature without prior
written consent from the author, Carnegie-Mellon University, and
University of California in each case.

If you have questions, you can contact the author at bsy@cs.ucsd.edu

Users of this software is requested to make their best efforts (a) to
return to the author any improvements or extensions that they make, so
that these may be included in future releases; (b) to document clearly
any improvements or extensions made to this software; and (c) to inform
the author of noteworthy uses of this software.  Any improvements or
extensions to this software may be placed under different copyright
restrictions by the author of those improvements or extensions.  That
those improvements or extensions be placed under the same copyright as
this software is encouraged.

